---
created_on: "2023-03-10"
---

## 205. Isomorphic Strings


### _Description_

Given two strings `s` and `t`, <i>determine if they are isomorphic</i>.

Two strings `s` and `t` are isomorphic if the characters in `s` can be replaced to get `t`.

All occurrences of a character must be replaced with another character while preserving the order of characters. No two characters may map to the same character, but a character may map to itself.


#### Example 1 :
```
Input: s = "egg", t = "add"
Output: true
```

#### Example 2 :
```
Input: s = "foo", t = "bar"
Output: false
```

#### Example 3 :
```
Input: s = "paper", t = "title"
Output: true
```

#### Constraints:

- `1 <= s.length <= 5 * 104`
- `t.length == s.length`
- `s` and `t` consist of any valid ascii character.


## Code

```JavaScript
<!-- My Solution -->
<!-- Runtime: 67 ms -->

/**
 * @param {string} s
 * @param {string} t
 * @return {boolean}
 */
var isIsomorphic = function(s, t) {
    let isomorphic = new Map();
    let check = new Map();

    for(i=0; i<s.length; i++){
        let m = s.charAt(i)
        let n = t.charAt(i)
        let sCounter = isomorphic.get(m)
        let tCounter = check.get(n)
        
        {sCounter===undefined? isomorphic.set(m,1) :isomorphic.set(m, sCounter+1)} 
        {tCounter===undefined? check.set(n,1) :check.set(n, tCounter+1)} 

        if(isomorphic.get(m)!==check.get(n)){
            return false
        }
    }
    return true;
}

/* Failed to execute input
"bbbaaaba"
"aaabbbba"  */

```

```JavaScript
<!-- LeetCode Solution #1 -->
<!-- Runtime : 71 ms -->
<!-- Memory : 42.5 MB -->

/**
 * @param {string} s
 * @param {string} t
 * @return {boolean}
 */
var isIsomorphic = function(s, t) {
    const map1 = [256];
    const map2 = [256];

    for(let idx = 0; idx < s.length; idx++){

     if(map1[s.charAt(idx)] != map2[t.charAt(idx)])
            return false;

        map1[s.charAt(idx)] = idx + 1;
        map2[t.charAt(idx)] = idx + 1;
    }
    return true; 
};

-----------------------------------------------

idx=0 일 때 if(undefined != undefined) 
=> 넘어가고 map1 b = 1 map2의 a=1

idx=1 일 때 if( 1 != 1) 
=> 넘어가고 map1의 b = 2 map2의 a=2

idx=2 일 때 if( 2 != 2) 
=> 넘어가고 map1의 b = 3 map2의 a=3

idx=3 일 때 새로운 알파벳이라 
if(undefined  != undefined) 
=> 넘어가고 map1은 b = 3, a=4이고 map2는 a=3이고 b=4

4 넘어가고

idx=5 일 때 if(5  != 5) 
=> 넘어가고 map1은 b = 3, a=6이고 map2는 a=3이고 b=6

idx=6 일 때 if(3  != 6) 
=> return false

```


#

### [Note] My code was just comparing the frequency of occurrence

- My code only compares the `frequency of occurrence` between string `s` and `t`. Therefore, when I reached `index 6`, even if either value in hash map 'a' or 'b' changed from 3 to 4, it still returned `true`, causing an error. 
- The order of occurrence was also important, which I failed to notice.
- The key point in the solution provided by LeetCode was to use `idx+1`. By adding `idx+1`, I was able to create an algorithm that could distinguish the order of occurrences.

